In this video and the next one, I want to look at Collectors' to map side by side with Collectors'
grouping by they're not the same and exam questions may try to use them interchangeably.
The collective start to map allows you to take a stream of elements and produce a map or a map to entry
and the element have a one to one relationship.
You specify how the key to the map is created and how the value is created.
A key must be unique or you'll get an exception.
The collectors took grouping by allows you to take a stream of elements and produce a map where a mapped
entry and the element have a one to many relationship, you specify the key to the map and the value
is by default, a list of elements which contain the matching data element value.
So switching back to code to the examples in this code will be using the class I created in previous
video.
This is our element pet class.
This one here.
And obviously we're in the stream operations project.
It's a brief recap.
We've got some test data there.
And the Noailles constructor down here produces a randomly generated pet object.
It's attributes randomly assigned from lists within the class and that lists up there at the top.
Let's alter the class a little bit by replacing, firstly, the two string method.
Down here, we're going to got a little bit less information, so I'm just going to post the coda.
To make it a bit more concise, the next thing we need to do is create a new class, we're going to
call it on stream extras.
Clovis, Carol.
This code, if we look at it, just creates a list of five randomly created pets and then puts them
out.
This year, put it it is you can say that I've got three hamsters, a ferret and a cat, but run it
again, given the random nature will get different results this time.
You can see we've got two pigs, a dog, a cat and a hamster.
What if I just want a list of distinct pet types, only one pig, one dog, one threat, for example,
let's add the distinct method, Kahir.
Distinct operation.
If you run this.
Thus, you can see it doesn't actually seem to do anything to see here, we've still got mortarboards
in this case of CAT.
And if I run it again.
We've got random results that aren't necessarily just that artistic.
And again, there's a sample of two dogs, so we're certainly not getting a list of distinct pet types.
The distinct operation doesn't take an argument.
So how would you get a list of five pets with a distinct type?
The distinct operation is described as returning a stream consisting of the distinct elements, according
to Object ECLSS Object to the Stream.
So let's alter our pet classic in their element, top pet.
But what I'm going to do is post in an equals method as well as a hash cart method.
We need both here.
There are separate import.
Now, I'm just using pet type as the distinctive feature, which would make a pet unique, the obviously
one dog is not the same as another, but for our purposes here and demonstration purposes, this is
good enough what we've done here.
Now we go back to our stream extras and run it again.
This time we should indeed get distinct results.
But you can see the results.
They will run a few more times.
And clearly, that's now working and we're getting distinct results each time.
Looks like all you do is compare collectors to grouping by and collectors dot maps side by side.
To do that, we need some more code.
I'm going to places some code in this mind method.
So the first code segment is just collectors start grouping by it's a single argument overloaded method
and it takes a function.
Now, here's what I'm doing is I'm passing it to get a method which returns a pit type.
So you can see that I'm using a method reference there to get type the result as a map with a curve
pit type and a value, which is a list of pet objects.
The second code segment is using collectors to map the two met.
Method does not have a single argument overloaded method.
It has a two argument method.
You can see that in use here.
What I'm doing is I'm putting together a method for pet type as the first argument, same as what I
did with collectors.
The grouping by.
But the second argument, I'm actually passing the entire pet object represented by the Latin expression
P arrow token P.
In both cases.
What I'm doing after that is I'm changing the result, the map to the entry set dot string methods and
then use the foreach terminal operation to print each map entry.
So let's from this now, bearing in mind that the output will vary each time we run it.
There's an example there, we'll run it again.
No more, Tom.
And you can say that's working, so although the airport does look similar, there is a difference.
In the first instance, the map generated by the collectors, the grouping by is a map of string Bursley
and then a list of pict, the string being the key list of pit being the value.
In the second instance, the map generated by the collectors, that two map is a map of string and pit.
So no list in the second scenario.
Let's go back to our look.
Came make a change back up here to our pet population list of pets.
I got to remove the distinct operation.
And if I run this now.
Any time we've now got pets of the same pet type in our list, we'll get an error when using collectors
not to map the method.
So basically that method fails when trying to create a unique pet type if there is a duplicate in the
list now that we've removed the distinct operation.
Now, we can't avoid that.
If you run it a few times, if we don't get a duplicate, it won't crash.
There you go.
That's an example of it not crashing.
And the reason for that is if we have a look at the airport, there's no duplicates in the list at the
top.
So importantly, they don't get these two methods confused on an exam question because clearly in a
scenario was going to crash if there are duplicate entries and one white.
As an example, you can see on screen there, typically, Ferit, and you can see this model ferret's
in l'Est.
Let's go back to our pit class again and change our Eaglesmith at this time.
I'm going to do is make pit unique by pit type and pit name.
I just change the return line only.
So what I'm doing there is making PET unique, this time by pet type and pet name as shown.
Now that I've done that, we'll go back to history class this time instead of actually putting distinct
on the first train that's added to the map to stream.
Or rather, the two maps, I should say, they're going to come down here and add a distinct operation.
Also, change the map, key to the same set of data as we've done now equals class.
Now a place that in their.
I get rid of this extra code that's matching what we've done now equals method by making it unique puppet
type and pit name as well.
So let's run this a few times.
We should no longer get exceptions.
We'll just have to check the output each time.
So duplicates, you see there's a duplicate there, but now we're no longer getting an error, not just
run it a few more times.
But you could say, but we're on it again.
There's an example of a garden with two hamsters.
And again, we haven't got an era now where we fix the equals method and revised our stream by adding
distinct and then changing the arguments to to map.
Bottom line here now is that the map generated by the two maps stream first remove the duplicates.
That's why we're no longer getting errors, even if there are duplicates in the original list that was
created.
That's in the video.
Here's a look at returning the results as a treasure map in the next video.